# mutation-predictability

This repository contains the data and code used to generate results and corresponding 
figures of the paper
["Enzyme Structure Correlates With Variant Effect Predictability"](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csbj.2024.09.007).

- [System requirements](#system-requirements)
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [Install instructions](#install-instructions)
- [Reproducibility](#reproducibility)


# System requirements

## Hardware requirements
`predictability` can be run on a standard computer without extensive hardware configurations. 
GPU availability is not necessary, but will greatly speed up training runs of the RITA 
regressor. 

## Software requirements

### OS requirements
The `predictability` package is supported for macOS and Linux and tested on 
`macOS Sonoma 14.5`.


### Python requirements
`predictability` requires python &ge; 3.8. All requirements and the corresponding 
versions are listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

# Project structure
All experiments and processing of results are organized in notebooks, which can be run by 
installing the `predictability` package.

# Install instructions
Clone the repository and install with
```
git clone https://github.com/florisvdf/mutation-predictability.git
cd mutation-predictability
pip install .
```
The Potts Regressor model of the `predictability` package makes 
use of [`gremlin_cpp`](https://github.com/sokrypton/GREMLIN_CPP). 
To use the Potts Regressor, make sure that `gremlin_cpp` is installed 
and is added to `$PATH`. 

Installation on a typical computer should take no longer than 10 minutes.

# Reproducibility
Results can be reproduced by simply executing all notebooks under the `notebooks` 
directory. Plots can be generated by executing the `notebooks/plotting.ipynb` 
notebook. Different sample assignment to train and test folds can be achieved by 
executing the notebooks while changing the variable `seed` in the second cell.


# License and disclaimer
Copyright 2024 International Flavors and Fragrances, Wageningen University & Research

All software is licensed under the MIT License; you may not use this file except in compliance with the MIT license. You may obtain a copy of the MIT license at: https://mit-license.org

All other materials are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY). You may obtain a copy of the CC-BY license at: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and materials distributed here under the MIT or CC-BY licenses are distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under those licenses.
